README.rst, before:

========
Clay
========

**A rapid prototyping tool.**

With Clay you can forget about making changes to dozens of HTML files
just because you need to add a link in the footer.

You can also use it to prototype your AJAX-driven application or the
responses of sending forms, because it acts like a real server.

Quickstart
----------

::

    $ clay new myappname

will generate a new app container with the following structure::

    myappname
      ├── source/
      ├─────── static/
      ├── README.md
      └── settings.yml

Inside that folder, run the development server with::

    $ clay run

and your site'll be available at ``http://0.0.0.0:8080/``.

Anything you put under ``source`` will be render as a page. For instance,
``source/page.html`` will be visible at::

    http://0.0.0.0:8080/page.html

and ``source/foo/bar.json`` at::

    http://0.0.0.0:8080/foo/bar.json


To generate a static version of your site, stop the server (with
``Control + C``) and run::

    $ clay build

and all the templates will be processed and the result stored inside the
``build`` folder.


How to install
--------------

Just run::

    sudo pip install clay

and you're ready to go.


Happy coding!



______

:copyright: `Lúcuma labs S.A.C. <http://lucumalabs.com>`_
:license: MIT, see LICENSE for more details.

Commit message:

Add warning to README
So long, and thanks for all the fish.

README.rst, after:

========
Clay
========

Warning
~~~~~~~~

Sadly, this project:

1. Is currently unmaintained.
2. Only works in Python 2.7.
3. Is in dire need of several improvements for its version 3.0:

    - Drop the markdown support
    - Drop the cherrypy/cheroot dependency and go with gunicorn
    - Update voodoo to copier.
    - Replace beaker with pyceo
    - Drop the support of all Pythons before 3.6.

----

**An amazing prototyping tool.**

With Clay you can forget about making changes to dozens of HTML files
just because you need to add a link in the footer.

You can also use it to prototype your AJAX-driven application or the
responses of sending forms, because it acts like a real server.

Quickstart
----------

::

    $ clay new myappname

will generate a new app container with the following structure::

    myappname
      ├── source/
      ├─────── static/
      ├── README.md
      └── settings.yml

Inside that folder, run the development server with::

    $ clay run

and your site'll be available at ``http://0.0.0.0:8080/``.

Anything you put under ``source`` will be render as a page. For instance,
``source/page.html`` will be visible at::

    http://0.0.0.0:8080/page.html

and ``source/foo/bar.json`` at::

    http://0.0.0.0:8080/foo/bar.json


To generate a static version of your site, stop the server (with
``Control + C``) and run::

    $ clay build

and all the templates will be processed and the result stored inside the
``build`` folder.


How to install
--------------

Just run::

    sudo pip install clay

and you're ready to go.


Happy coding!



______

:copyright: `Lúcuma labs S.A.C. <http://lucumalabs.com>`_
:license: MIT, see LICENSE for more details.
